---
title: 'Fighting with Vista on a small system partition'
date: '2008-06-15T16:53:58+02:00'
status: publish
permalink: /article/news-2008-06-15.html
author: Snakefoot
excerpt: ''
type: post
id: 769
category:
    - News
tag: []
post_format: []
---
I changed from Windows 2000 to Vista some time ago, and low and behold Vista uses a wee bit more disk space. Sadly enough the system partition is only 15 GByte, so it is a "daily" struggle to keep disk usage down (Especially when SP1 had to be installed). Right now there is 2 GByte available free space, after installing all my usual applications, this lead me down the futile road of trying to minimize the size of the Windows install.

- [Using NTFS compression to save disk space](/article/winnt-ntfs-compress.html) is not a recommended strategy when using Vista, but there are some candidate folders when using WinXP.
- [Saving power using CPU throttling](/article/winnt-cpu-state.html) is automatically enabled on Vista, but it can also be done on Windows XP.
- It is quite easy to change the [default folder view for all folders](/article/winnt-default-folder-view.html) in Windows XP.
 
 Note AVG is frequently nagging about upgrading to version 8.0, and the new AVG version introduces a [Link Scanner](http://www.grisoft.com/us.80935) plugin. The Link Scanner will be installed even if selecting not to install it. The Link Scanner will make hooks into you web-browser, and be activated whenever a link is clicked or a search result is displayed. If not interested in having this babysitter around, then one can uninstall it with this command-line (Better than disabling as it will prevent the warning about an AVG component not running):
 > avg\_free\_stf\_\*.exe /REMOVE\_FEATURE fea\_AVG\_SafeSurf /REMOVE\_FEATURE fea\_AVG\_SafeSearch