---
title: 'Windows 10 Upgrade with black screen'
date: '2015-08-01T00:23:52+02:00'
status: publish
permalink: /article/news-2015-07-31-html
author: Snakefoot
excerpt: 'First impression review of Windows 10 after some upgrade trouble. A meeting between a software developer and Microsoft Windows 10.'
type: post
id: 2193
category:
    - News
tag:
    - windows-shell
    - windows-store
    - windows-upgrade
post_format: []
---
##### Discrete Display Adapter Blues

 Like a child waiting for christmas, then I clicked the upgrade button as soon as it appeared. The upgrade began, and suddenly during the upgrade the screen went black. I thought it was the display driver install during upgrade that had issues, and just let it be. After 8 hours of black screen and no mouse-cursor, then I made a hard reboot but the black screen continued after the BIOS-POST.  
  
 I guessed that it was the display driver, so I tried to boot into safemode, but Windows never made it into safemode and instead soft-rebooted. I googled the black screen issues, and was told to either download and install a new driver, or uninstall the existing one using device manager. Sadly enough I'm not like Rutger Hauer in Blind Fury.  
  
 Instead I booted into recovery mode and reverted to the previous Windows Build. Then I uninstalled the Nvidia GTX 750 Ti-drivers (and my discrete Intel-drivers) using the Control Panel, but after the required restart, then Windows Update had installed them again. The solution was to use the Display Driver Uninstaller from Guru3d (without restarting), just before pressing the Windows 10 Upgrade button.  
  
 Windows 10 was then able to boot into a black screen with a MOUSE-CURSOR, and after an extra reboot then I was presented with the second half of a extended desktop. Windows 10 had forgotten that my Nvidia-card was the primary one, by pressing **Windows-Key + P** (3 Times) then my second display adapter became the primary.  
##### Start Menu

 Yes it is back! Sadly enough it is big and bloated, because they have stuffed the tile screen into the start menu. But for some strange reason they have left out the search-box, which has its own start-menu (Looking Glass Icon - Windows-key and enter search). Don't mind the active tiles thing, but it could be nice that they had combined "Most Used" and "Pinned Tiles" into one collection called "Favorite Apps". These "Favorites Apps" could then have a little magic, where it automatically added apps that I used a lot, but still allowed me to customize it. Still some transformation is needed here to unify Store Apps with Desktop Apps.  
  
 I removed all the "Pinned Tiles" and were able to resize the Start Menu into a normal size with only "Most Used". Would have preferred just having the "Favorites Apps" together with a search box. Also miss the ability to pin anything to the Start Menu (Documents, Shortcuts, etc.).
 
##### Windows Store Apps

 Windows Store Apps are no longer forced full-screen, and can be juggled around with Desktop application. The transformation seems complete here, so Frankensteins Monster is no longer that ugly on the Desktop.  
  
 The color of the Windows Title Bar is now forced white, with a slightly grey coloring for inactive windows. It is now difficult to recognize the window currently active. **\*Update\*** This has been fixed with Threshold 2. The non-solution is to activate a butt-ugly high-contrast theme, and customize it with this command:
 > rundll32.exe shell32.dll,Control\_RunDLL desk.cpl,Advanced,@Advanced

##### Edge

 The WebBrowser works fine, but strange that "Frequent Visited" has been removed from about:tabs. Instead you have "Top Sites" chosen by some random dude.
 
##### Movies &amp; TV

 Xbox Video App is now called "Movies &amp; TV". It doesn't use DirectShow Filtering, but instead Media Foundation (Just like Windows Media Player). This means that DirectVobSub (VsFilter) doesn't work for showing subtitles. Strangely enough the old Xbox Video App was able to handle subtitle files, but this feature is no longer there. Rather annoying.  
  
 I have found this plugin [Local Subtitles for WMP](http://sourceforge.net/projects/wmpsub/), that enables SRT subtitles in the old Windows Media Player (WMP) together with Media Foundation. It seems WMP is now able to handle MKV-containers without having installed Haali Splitter.